Welcome everybody to Inspiring Hope Church. Um,
If I do not know you I am Brittany. I am Ben's
Pastor Ben's wife and um, we our kids worship
with us and then you have the opportunity to
actually let them go to a classroom and they get
to do a class back there um right now any of our
adults that are serving in kids
if you'll go to the back so Jenna
she's raising her hand right there and
then the orange shirts kind of help too.
Christina and Peyton they're with the preschool. So
if you have um four and under four year olds and
under they go with them and then the kindergarten
through fifth go with Jenna and me. I'll be going so.
All right that's the kids are dismissing
you guys can go ahead and say that you
want to get some coffee get to
know somebody next to you as
the kids transition out we'll do that for
just a few minutes before we get started
I guess somebody should speak so I'll take some
time and share from God's word today. Um if you
brought a bible with you today you can turn to
Ephesians chapter five if you didn't here's always
my challenge to you there's two ways um if you
want to be able to look at God's word today one
you can see the scripture here on the screen too
you can download the holy bible app that's a bible
app that I actually use daily um it's really
encouraging for me and so you can download a
holy bible app and go to Ephesians chapter five or
we have bibles back here on our next steps table
if you want to go grab one of those right now you
can if you want one on the way out we'd love for
you to have one but again um we really value God's
word because we believe God's word is truth and
there's several things that we can glean from his
word to add to our lives to be able to encourage
us to be able to challenge us in our faith and
to really be able to reveal who God is um but
we're gonna be in just the first two verses and
most people that would hear that hey we're only
covering two verses today that means it's gonna
be a little bit shorter hey I'm praying the same
thing I hope it's a little shorter as well but
um there's just really a lot in these two verses
that God is willing to teach us um and I believe
that will be encouraging to each one of us but
I just really want to catch you guys up so we've
actually been in the book of Ephesians as a church
for I don't know how long last several months um
and so we just happen to be here in chapter five
and so I just want to be able to catch you up just
a little bit and the more you get to know me the
more you get to know our church I really want to
involve those who want to be involved just asking
a few questions but let me just kind of catch you
up this book the book of Ephesians is a letter
that was wrote by the apostle Paul and again Paul
has wrote a lot of the new testament books if you
guys may not know that but just should be able
to share that with you but Paul is someone who
was changed by Christ Christ radically changed his
life on the road to Damascus and met him there um
and he had just basically a radical conversion
he began to live his life out for Jesus because
of what Jesus did for him but he wrote this
letter to the Ephesians right and he actually
helped plant this church about 10 years ago he
went to Ephesus and shared the gospel and a lot
of people came to faith in Christ and so 10 years
later he wants to write a letter to encourage them
the interesting thing with this letter is that
Paul, the writer, is writing this from prison.
So how many all would want to write a letter
from prison to encourage someone else anybody
there's a good chance if I'm writing a letter
it's get me out of here find a lawyer spend
everything in the bank and get me out of here
and so the interesting thing with Paul is
Paul didn't necessarily see himself in prison
um writing this letter he actually wanted to go
to Rome to actually go reach real with the
gospel and he thought it was going to be
different but it ended up being in prison and
how he did that so it's interesting as we look
at this text today Paul's writing in a letter
to these people other believers to encourage
them to to remind them of all that God has
done for them and to remind them how to walk
in their faith and that really challenges us as
we think about this about how much Paul must have
loved these people and cared for these people to
really encourage them just through this letter
and so this letter is not only for them but
again God's word is true so it's valuable for us
um so as we look at it today it's going to be
hopefully encouraging to you but just to kind
of give you this uh outline so Ephesians kind
of broke up into three chapters at the beginning
which tells us all that Christ did for us and
then in the last three chapters is how we start to
walk in and so this is the part where I want to
include those who want to be a part of it again
I'm not calling people out on this but those who
maybe have been walking through this text with us
or maybe those who have a relationship with Jesus
if we're looking at today's text in light of what
God has done for us here's my question to you
what has God done for you or maybe you've been
walking through this book with us maybe what are
some things that God has shown you in the first
three chapters of what God's done for you so go
ahead somebody share I'd love for someone to share
what's God done for you or based upon what
we've been studying what has God done for you
what else is Christ in for us
we woke you up this morning got you here that's
awesome that's awesome anybody else want to share
so here's the reason why I asked that question
is Christ has done a lot for every one of us
whether you've accepted him chosen to follow him
or not um see God has given us new life seeing the
beginning of Ephesians chapter one it says that
he chose us God chose us to become children of God
and so he offered himself as a sacrifice not
only to save us but to really give us a purpose
here on earth but also a purpose in heaven and
eternity and so there's several things that he's
taught us in these first couple chapters but
based on what God has done for us through Jesus
we're going to learn today that we should imitate
God and so I'm going to read this text here
in Ephesians chapter 5 in the first couple
verses here's what it says it says therefore
be imitators of God as dearly beloved children
and walk in love as Christ also loved us
and gave himself for us a sacrificial and fragrant
offering to God so let's pray Lord Jesus thank you
again for the opportunity to open your word and
read it but Lord also to talk about it and see how
Lord this affects our lives and so we
just pray this in your heavenly name
amen and so we're given two
commands out of this test
they're gonna be pretty simple straightforward but
there's depth in them and so the first thing that
Paul says is that we're to imitate Christ and
so when you think of imitation you may think of
a lot of different things okay here's the things
I think of I think of mimicking and if you have kids
you've heard one of your kids yell out mom
so and so is basically copying me right
it's annoying but that's not the invitation that
god's or that Paul's talking about here when we
talk about imitating God it's actually a good
thing right it's the good attributes of God to
imitate um whenever I think about also imitation
I think of following someone's patterns right
you can actually replace the word imitate with
follow um here's another great example so I have
a son that's ten and the son that's three the son
of three is three follows him around and literally
does everything he does there's times
where they're watching TV at the
dinner table and so they turn my older son turns
his chair to be able to watch the TV and eat
see here's the thing my older son can lean over
the table because he's old enough he understands
that it's not drop crumbs in the ground but my
younger son he turns the chair just like him he
has to because he wants to imitate him because he
drops crumbs on the ground but that's the type of
invitation I think that was just within my family
so let me maybe step out here where you guys know
anybody here a basketball fan let's just go a
little bit deeper anybody had Kobe Kobe fan
okay what about let's go a little bit further back
anybody at Michael Jordan fan we're not sitting
here debating whether who's great or Michael's
group but anyway we're not going to delay
but here's the reason why does anybody know even
though Kobe would have did it does anybody know
that Kobe spent the majority of his life
imitating Michael see he was his own self but
yet he spent time watching video over and over
again it's the way that he shot the basketball
the way that he played defense the way that he
celebrated the way that he won championships
was to imitate Michael see I think about this
you guys may think I'm funny so in the age that
I grew up um I was a huge Tiger Woods fan so
out on the golf course I wore the red you know
polo you guys know what I'm talking about when
I made the long putt you know what I did oh yeah
right that was me but I was never good enough
to imitate the tiger woods really on the course
at all but I like that idea that's so that's
the things I think about imitation right when
we think about how do we imitate someone well
here's the question when Paul says we are to
imitate Christ does that sound like a challenging
task to you anybody how can I a person imitate
follow after copy God that's a great question
that's a challenging question but here's the
great part God didn't say Paul didn't say
follow Christ on your own and figure it out
he did a couple of things let me start with this
one yes we can imitate God because why we are
genesis 1:27 says we are made in the image of God
so number one we are made in the image of God so
we we are obviously in some forms look like God he
says that we are his greatest creation so that's
obviously and that gets us a little bit closer
to imitating God but there's a couple of the
things that God did God sent Jesus as an example
of how to imitate God that's why Jesus came to
give us a physical idea of what it looks like to
imitate and to follow after God see what Christ
did for us gives us that visual perspective
but here's the the last one if you've given
your life to Christ if you've accepted what Jesus
did for you on the cross to repent of your sins
then he actually gave you the holy spirit and
this is the cool part you have a spiritual coach
that lives inside you this is what God
said if you've given your life to Christ
he's given the holy spirit which is really just
God inside of us to guide and direct our lives
in order to imitate Christ so I know this if i
have a spiritual coach that's with me every day
never leaves me never forsakes me always guides
me I have a lot more likelihood of imitating God
you guys agree I would agree with that so
this is where we say yes can we ever take
out the answer is absolutely and he
says this that we are children of God
and so when we think about annotating God he's not
saying to become God that's that's one make sure
we're clear on this this is not to become a God
as though we are in control of every single thing
no he says to imitate or to walk by God and so
what's the difference so when we think about
imitating or falling after God and not being God
it means that we understand our place and really
knowing this that God has certain attributes
we can't attain he's all-powerful all-knowing
right so we we can't attain those but there are
some things that we can attain right holiness
kindness sacrifice love we can imitate those we
can imitate a prayerful life right we look at
god's word we learned that Jesus was again God in
the flesh had a prayer life that we could imitate
he invited others into a relationship with him
he served others right and the way that he lives
we can imitate and so obviously when we think
about this invitation this is something I just
I woke up this morning and God just really brought
this to mine one of the things that we can imitate
God in is in our suffering and in our struggles
right Christ gave his life for us gave it up
so that we could know him have a relationship
with God spend the eternity in heaven with him
but we can relate to God in his
suffering but here is the greatest thing
if you're imitating Jesus in his suffering you'll
also imitate Jesus in the victory that he claimed
over dead fell in the grave see he says
this he says for I have overcome the world
right and God has reminded us that we
have not been given a spirit of fear
but of power and love and sound mind these are all
things that God says that we can imitate him in
so we see this right that we can imitate God
that's the first command that Paul says but what's
the second thing he says he says that we should
imitate God but then we should also walk in love
so let's look at this he says and to walk in love
as Christ also loved us okay so what's it mean to
walk in love and so let me just give you this
other side of this he doesn't say the sprint
in love how many of y'all were sprinters in high
school maybe college in vegas for entering here
we got one we got two okay did you guys sprint for
a mile or did you sprint for like a short distance
short distance why you well one you couldn't you
couldn't hold that pace it wouldn't sprint anymore
at a mile so Paul's saying to walk in love
which means we are to consistently walk in
love not just in moments of love and so whenever
I think about this it's easy to do something
like once maybe to walk in or to sprint in love
once but he seemed to walk consistently right
to walk consistently and I actually looked as
a kid somebody there's got to be somebody out
there that has this record for walking and not
stopping and so there was george wiggin walked
19 000 miles in 2400 days it says the longest
unbroken walk that's a long time of walking
so when we picture walking I want you to picture
that long distance consistency in walking in love
but here's the question okay so walk in love
is love an emotional feeling just this all
all this inside just squishy you know that's
usually what I felt like whenever I first met
my wife I mean it was all emotional like inside
but I began to understand love was patient love
was kind love was long suffering she's not in
the room don't tell her I said that but this
is exactly what Paul's talking about see Paul
talked about this in first corinthians 13 and
I'm just going to read this out it says love is
patient love is kind love does not envy love is
not boastful love is not arrogant love is not rude
love is not self-seeking love is not irritable
I'm going to say that again love is not
irritable somebody need to hear that
it does not keep a record of wrongs oh my gosh I'm
probably hitting some marriage issues I've been
there before right I'm trying to keep those
records I file them back so I can use them
love finds no joy and unrighteousness but
rejoices in the truth it bears all things
believes all things hopes all things endures all
things see that's the love that Paul says to walk
in consistently now what you guys may be
saying is that's unattainable then there's
no way we can walk in that absolutely you can
because if we imitate our father God who gave
us a spirit to walk alongside us and remind us
of what love is that we will be consistently
walking and learning how to be patient and
how to be kind if I'm just being honest um
this is a life of practice in a marriage
it's learning how to walk in love because
when it's a sprint it's like that
first date or two right it's awesome
love's great but then whenever you get to know
each other and you understand the differences you
have and the disagreements you have you learn what
love truly is it is working through these things
so based on that definition of love how
do you feel like you're doing it I mean
honestly the first time I read this this week i
went wow I'm struggling in a lot of these areas
so does this this type of love define me so
let me expect this step back just a second
this letter was wrote to other believers people
who knew Jesus and this is if you're in this
room and you don't know Jesus this is not for me
knocking you this is not all honestly we want you
to know who Jesus is and know that God loves you
but what I'm saying is the only people that can
attain imitation of God and the only people that
can attain walking in love are those who know God
and it would make sense right how could you
not know someone and actually do something
that's like them right so you would have
to know them so he's speaking to believers
so the answer is based on this definition of
love we should know how to walk in love and so
Paul is again saying this it's not just for the
gifted and talented Christians a lot of times
we say hey there's the special Christians that can
do this but it's not me no he's talking to all all
of us those who know him and here's the reason
why we should walk in love john 13 35 says this
but this is by this everyone will know that
you are my disciples if you love one another by
this everyone will know that you are my disciples
you are my children if you walk in love see one of
the things if you got to know a little bit
those who don't know our group as a church
um our church has been through a ton of stuff
since we've gathered a lot of tough things
and you want to know the one thing that
I think has defined our group love love
and that's what we want to be we want to show
the love of Christ of one another so that when
others see it they say where do you get
that and it comes from God our father
so for most of us walking when you think
about just walking in the natural sense
um is easy now right but but today we're
talking about parker's education when she's
over there knocked out I wish I could go to
sleep like that will you hold me later so I'm
um he can't walk right now can he no but you
know what he's doing you'll see him watch
megan and josh and you'll see
him watch grandma and grandpa
walking and eventually as he grows up guess
what he's gonna do he's gonna begin crawling
and he's gonna be chasing after you
why because he wants to imitate you
he wants to follow you and he wants to see
what it's like to get on those two feet and
use them right and to walk around fast because
it's slow as a kid and once they start walking
parents you know this you're chasing
everywhere and you're putting things up higher
and you're putting outlet plugs in if
you haven't done that you need to do that
okay why because that's what one and one as
a parent we want to see our kids walk right
we love to see that see God knows this at the
moment of salvation he's given us the abilities
followers of Jesus imitators to walk in love
but at times our legs are wobbly and you know
what the father does he puts his hand down
and he holds our hand and when we fall down
here what the father does he picks us up you know
what he does he consistently helps us because he
wants us to follow him and to walk in love
see he doesn't leave you to figure it out
on your own no God loves you so much that he
chose you to be his child and to walk in love
so what do we need if if maybe you're struggling
to walk in love as a believer maybe what do you
need if you're starting to walk in love maybe
apart from Christ you need Christ right you need
Christ to come and pick you up but I'll say this
you'll never know how to walk in love the way that
god's called you to walk in love you'll never know
how to imitate God unless you are close unless you
spend time with him unless you get to know him
and the cool part about that is every week that
we gather here every week that we gather in our
homes and our inspired groups every day that we
search God's word we're learning how to
walk in love and to imitate our father
so Paul gives these two reasons right so why
should we walk in love and why should we entertain
Jesus that's a great question why should we
walk in love and why should we imitate Jesus
so Paul gives these two reasons at the end of
each one of these commands of why we should
imitate God and want good love so let's look at
the first one we should imitate God because and
let's look here he says therefore be imitators
of God as dearly loved children so you've heard
me talk about that right children we are
children of God those who have given their
lives to Christ children of God and we talked
already about how children look up to parents
so whoever raised you whether it's a
grandma or grandpa maybe it's your parents
you imitated them in some ways right my parents i
got some good things from them and I got some bad
things from them right but we imitate our parents
and so God is saying this imitate Paul sentence
imitate God as dearly children as children of God
but I know this is the difficult part there could
be somebody in this room maybe multiple people in
this room that did not have good parents coming up
maybe your parents weren't absent maybe they
didn't raise you right I don't know what it is
and it's hard to look at God as a heavenly
father and say I want to follow my father
and imitate him and if you're struggling with that
I'm so sorry but I I do want to share this with
you that if maybe you didn't have a father present
maybe it's a mother I don't know what it is
good solid appearance that there's a heavenly
father who is a perfect example that is a
perfect example to follow if you didn't have the
father to follow he could be the father to follow
see Paul encourages didn't take our Godly father
who will never let us down he's a perfect example
let's let's look at some of the things here he he
will never leave you or forsake you see God sent
his spiritual lives inside you to remind you
of his presence so he's consistently with you
see God is proud to call you child he calls you
child he calls you kids this is the the part if
you haven't read the book of Ephesians recently
you need to go read the first three chapters
because there's so much in there that God says
he loves you but he sent ultimately Jesus to
die in your place so you can have a personal
relationship with him you're just not another
person in God's kingdom you are important to
him every single person is important to him
so ultimately we should imitate God because of all
that he's done for us and make us children of God
but there's another part right so we should
imitate God because we're dearly children
but we should also walk in love because it says
this in the second verse and to walk in love is
Christ also loved us and gave himself for us
a sacrificial and fragrant offering to God
see Jesus loved us and gave himself for us
and john 15:13 reminds us this that no one
has greater love than this to lay down his life
for his friends see there's a reason why when we
see somebody with a hat on that that says veteran
that we go and we say thank you for your service
because they were willing to sacrifice
their lives for the those others right
so we honor them we see our heavenly father
sent Jesus to die for everyone that lives
and so because of that it draws us to
want to walk as Jesus walk walk in love
so Jesus is not only this model of perfect love
when we think of the life that he lived but he's
the reason for this Christian love so again today
if you say you have a relationship with Jesus
the only ability for you to love is what God gave
you and so let me tell you this the moment that i
gave my life to Christ I was married for three
I think it was about three years before I get
my life in Christ the moment I gave my life
to Christ was the first time I loved my wife
now you're saying oh man you're so horrible you
didn't love your wife before absolutely I didn't
love my wife before because I didn't understand
sacrificial love like I did before knowing Christ
that's exactly how we know what love is so if
we're ever going to walk in love it's going to be
because of the response of God's love and I love
this this this quote from john stott I just I had
to share with you guys he says this what dominated
Jesus mind was not living but giving up his life
see Jesus knew what he was doing
when he walked the road to the cross
the son of man must suffer many things and be
rejected and be killed that knowledge didn't
turn him away he walked on bound by his love for
God and for us he let the mission of God determine
his path he walked he wasn't surprised when it all
started going downhill he knew that judas would
betray him he knew his trial would go bad and
he knew the cross was coming and he accepted it
and loved us see the gospel is is that bold it's
that risky when we think of walking love Christ
at the example he knew it was coming for him yet
he still loved unconditionally and sacrificially
so are we really living for God and entertaining
God the challenge today is for you to ask that
question right is what's my love like am
I imitating God do I even know who God is
but when we see what Christ has done by dying on
the cross for us it should motivate us to walk
the love in the same way that he did
right because of what he's done for us
it may be easy again when we talk about loving
big ones right it's easy to do that one sprint
but he's saying for us to walk and love
so I want to get this way because I know
you guys Christ I mean when's it
going to be done we're almost there
Paul is speaking again directly to everyone
in this room this is the great part
about the timeless word of God is
that even though Paul wrote this
a long time ago that word was wrote for you
today and for me see I I tell people this
every time that I prepare a message I prepare
a message this way God what are you teaching me
because if God doesn't teach me first
there's no way I'm gonna stand up here
and share with you and then the second one is
is for you guys when you come in is asking this
question what's God speaking to me about today
he's here to speak through his words so through
Paul he gave two commands to entertain Jesus
and walk of God why because we're children of
God and because Jesus gave his life to us right to
give us a purpose and hope and I want you to know
today that God loves you so much maybe you need
to hear that today that God the one that created
you his greatest creation loves you and he desires
to have a personal relationship with him he's done
everything to bring him to a relationship with
him to adopt you as children of God Jesus love
and sacrifice on the cross should lead each one
of us to daily pick up our cross and follow him
so what's it look like in order to imitate
you've got to walk closely so today if you're
a believer of Christ maybe if you're saying how do
I imitate God is to walk closer through a personal
daily relationship with him maybe you've
just fallen away from pursuing him through
his word or pursuing him through consistently
being a part of a church or part of a group or
whatever it is to walk daily with him and
imitate him through those things that you learn
maybe if you don't know Christ today maybe
you're sitting here today and you're saying
hey I just came to the vacation I don't know
what you're talking about I've been there before
but I pray today you've heard the truth that God
desires for you to know what he did on the cross
and so I'm gonna end this way God so loved the
world that he gave his son Jesus to die on a cross
in our place so you may ask this question why did
Jesus have to die on the cross because every one
of us was born with sin and that's such a tough
thing to understand because I don't like thinking
that I have sin in my life sin is really anything
we think say do or don't do that displeases God so
all of us again fall short of God's glory but he
doesn't leave us there I think that's the hopeful
part about God a lot of times we think God just
wants to leave us in that and he's just wanting
to punish us honestly no God sent his son Jesus
so that we could be removed from that punishment
of of really dying for our sins and spending the
eternity separated from him he chose to send his
son Jesus so that you could live in eternity with
him but this is my favorite part of the gospel
that he gives a hope for you to live now in
this life for the rest of your life I hope
that one God is with you through all of your
trials and your struggles God loves you and he's
pursuing you and you know him more and more every
day so my challenge today is if you haven't given
your life to Christ that you do here in a moment
we're going to have invitation and really this is
what imitation means it's a time to process to ask
God okay God what did you speak to me about today
in your word how do I respond to it for some of
you that may be through accepting Jesus as your
Lord and savior and if you don't know what that
means I would love to talk to you I don't want
to complicate it because it's not complicated to
know Jesus he says if you'll believe in your heart
that Jesus is the son of God and that he came and
died for your sins and you'll repent of your sins
and follow him you can be saved and so i
want to talk to you about that today as we
in service and I know we're going to end
up having purpose dedication right after
but even after that please come talk to me i
would love to share my night and know Jesus
and how you can imitate him walk in his love
and so let's let's pray
and just ask God to guide us
in what he taught us today
Lord Jesus I'm so thankful for you I'm
thankful for your word that it's truth
but I'm so thankful that you love us so much
that you sent your son Jesus to this earth
Lord I I just I know today Lord as I think
about what you've done for each one of us
the Lord each one of us can claim victory
over our sins and over we're just the weight
of everything that is surrounding us Lord you
have overcome the world in all those things and
so you've promised Lord to give us a relationship
with you Lord if we'll just believe and follow
you I want to thank you for your word
because we know it's truth or thank you
for opening our hearts and our minds to what
you may be speaking to each one of us Lord
we know that you have a plan for each person this
room and Lord as I even think about baby parker
I already see that we'll give a plan for him
and I'm excited word here in just a moment
to bring them both uh him
up and the parents of Lord's
to pray over them in order to commit
to raising him Lord to love you
Lord may we all leave here today Lord knowing
that we can be children of God and to walk in love
Lord we pray this in your heavenly name. Amen.